my paper it's due in 3
hours and that's how he learned the hard
way to never trust a fart and
print wait a minute it's present year I
don't even own a printer and I'm not
alone since 2008 the printer Market has
been steadily shrinking but while we
don't need them nearly as often as our
ancestors did they are still
legitimately useful when they work
properly you can cut down on screen time
and eye fatigue by printing out
documents for markup you can make notes
and Q cards that work without a battery
and you can even use them for classic
pranks AMD is going to announce a new
chip and this chip trust me this chip is
good what what the what what's that what
but the question is has the printer
industry finally figured out how to be
less terrible or are they still treating
ink like it's Chanel Number Five infused
with scorpion venom what about the units
themselves do you need to spend $400 to
get reasonable quality what if you
bought something secondhand for $4 or 40
could it still print out this segue to
our sponsor I fix it while a shiny new
iPhone may be tempting
you can just repair your old one learn
more about how you can save 20% off
their iPhone screen and Battery Parts at
the end of this
video These Days sealed ink cartridges
are out and refillable tanks are in
especially if you print a lot and that's
where something like the Epson ecotank
ET 4850 comes in it's about $400 brand
new packed with features and sips ink
straight from the bottle saving on both
cost and on plastic waste now this was
my first time using a tank style printer
so I wasn't really sure what to expect
in terms of setup but it ended up being
very simple squeeze the ink into the
tanks plug it into whatever type of
computer you've got and print as for
refills it seems like the industry has
yielded somewhat to customer demands and
20 bucks is going to get you a big old
bottle of genuine black Epson ink drop
from drop it is still roughly a tenth
the price of Chanel Number 5 but that
still puts the cost per sheet down to
around a qu of a cent we're going to
have it linked down below of course you
also don't need to buy this stuff unlike
HP who as recently as a couple of months
ago was trying to force you to buy a
subscription to print more than a few
pages a month Epson does no genuine ink
checks the print quality is crisp
vibrant and reasonably quick we averaged
around seven pages per minute in our 600
DPI test run and you can connect to it
however you want including asking Alexa
to print off a sheet of graph paper it
even includes a scanner with fax
functionality so at this point you can
build yourself a DIY continuous ink
system but if your budget allows a
system like this is pretty much endgame
for most people's needs as for the
competition Canon has some really nice
options as well even though we didn't
get them for this video and brother they
have their ink vestment tank line but
seem to have lost the plot a little bit
it's kind of convoluted now with that
said even a non-con convoluted tank
system is not for everyone a big caveat
here is that ink tanks are full of well
Liquid Ink and liquid has a tendency to
dry up so if you only print one document
every few months there's a solid
chance that
you'll that you'll go to use it only to
find out that one or more of your colors
won't print because Inky goo is gummed
up the print head if this happens and
the printer selfcleaning cycle doesn't
unstick everything you're going to have
to either do the dirty job of manually
cleaning it or you'll have to replace
the print head or ink dampers all
together while Epson has made spare
parts available they only have four
distributors throughout America with
very limited stock meaning once the
thing hits end of life it could be
challenging to find those parts again
the other issue with these systems is
The Upfront price of $400 so without
further Ado may I introduce my $40 model
haha the the pantom
p2500w we found this monochrome laser
printer on Craigslist but we could have
picked up a similar openbox model for a
pretty similar price from our local
reliable supplier Facebook Marketplace
or wherever the case may be in terms of
features it's a printer no scan no facts
manual duplexing only and it will not
listen when you talk to it it does have
Wi-Fi but only using 2.4 GHz and at the
back you'll find power USB type B and a
little cutout suggesting that they were
thinking of adding networking but never
did initial setup was a little tougher
this time Windows 11 recognized it but
could only print out a garbled page but
then when we tried it on Linux it worked
fine and then after that we plugged it
into our Windows 11 machine and it
suddenly worked why we're not quite sure
but it works now and while the print
quality isn't perfect it's a little
streaky for text documents it is
perfectly serviceable and it still
shines when it comes to the big
advantages of laser like shelf stability
because toner is a dry powder there's no
urgency to keep the ink flowing it can
sit idly for months sometimes even years
without degrading to the point of
becoming unusable and when you do
eventually decide to use your printer
you will almost certainly appreciate the
speed in spite of being on the uh older
side it advertises 22 pages per minute
and hit that number almost dead on
during our longer print run this thing
is so fast f it practically smokes by
the 10th page wait wait that actually
does look like smoke but as it turns out
it steamed Laser Printers work through
heat and paper usually contains small
amounts of moisture and well heat plus
moisture makes steam add in a bit of
toner or dust and it can look a bit like
smoke but don't worry about it now this
is far from the only option as I alluded
to before there are plenty of budget
secondhand Laser Printers out there from
the likes of Samsung SLP or from brother
and as long as you verify that there's
driver support for your operating system
they tend to be extremely longlasting
machines I think my old Samsung unit has
been in service for over 10 years and
like still works like the day we got it
the reason we chose to highlight a
pantom model though was because we
thought it was a little more interesting
than those other brands despite this
printer being released over a decade ago
most North Americans probably wouldn't
recognize the brand but their history is
extremely interesting Phantom's parent
company ninestar originally specialized
in making bootleg lockout chips for
third-party ink and toner refills in
2010 they launched the first pantom
product China's first domestic laser
printer followed by a global rollout
over the next months then in 2016 they
bought lexark and in 2023 they were
added to the banned Imports list by the
US government on accusations of using
forced labor at $50 the official toner
refills would cost us more than the
printer did
third party on the other hand can be had
for around $18 that puts this printer at
about 3 cents and 1 cent per page
respectively now that might sound more
expensive than epson's quarter Cent
pages and it is but the cost of
ownership doesn't even out until you've
printed 7,000 sheets on that tank system
so if you've got 60 bucks to your name
and you absolutely need to print some
documents this is going to get the job
done but wait what if you don't have 6 $
enter the Canon
s200 listed on Craigslist for 10
Canadian Shillings we talked them down
to the maple leaf equivalent of four
Freedom bucks it wasn't our first pick
but buying a used printer comes with
some risks and having your time wasted
is definitely one of them we had dozens
of other listings either ghost Us sell
the printer from under us or otherwise
just refuse to sell us their printer but
hey can released this bubble jet printer
in February of 2002 and apparently they
didn't have much love for this
particular model because 2 months later
they released the PowerShot s200 digital
camera and I know I've said a lot about
other brands naming schemes but at least
they mostly bother to use different
letters and numbers for their different
products despite the slight from Canon
though they did make several other
printers that used the same form factor
software and even ink so finding
compatible cartridges all the these
years later is still pretty easy from
our local reliable supplier a thirdparty
combo pack of black and color ink was
actually less than the price we paid for
this printer even today unfortunately
bubble Jets were notorious for clogging
and as far as we can tell this printer
may have been sitting unused since as
early as
2004 even after buying new ink and
making a quick attempt to clean the
printer it's still just printing blank
pages something we got in common buddy
there may be hope though it just so
happened that when we were starting this
project a few months ago lgr posted a
half hourong Saga trying to get a
compatible printer working properly
how'd that go Clint never buy an old
inkjet printer this is all a complete
waste of time and everything is
stupid oh well too late so we ordered a
replacement print head and oh wait is
this the one oh the script says it
didn't arrive yet cuz it hadn't when we
reviewed this but I guess it has now are
we just going to try it now let's do
it the troubles Sho is never going to
work hey this this could be the first
time how long have you been doing this
give feedback on the trou trou to
crash ah
ah
it all right we'll have to fil the
tomorrow hey you got it yep wow and all
it took was installing the new print
head spending several hours trying to
force some truly ancient drivers onto
Windows 11 and Mac OS showing up late
for the company softball game getting in
a solid 6 hours of sleep and then first
thing in the morning putting together a
Linux test bench adding the guten print
drivers connecting the printer tracking
down a random printer test page website
he voila not bad actually I mean not
great but not bad taking some of the joy
out of this is the fact that we are now
at $34 including that new print head
plus the new ink that we bought earlier
plus paying people to do the
troubleshooting and whatever the test
bench Hardware cost but I have this now
in fact compared to our Epson the colors
are more vibrant and our text is more
legible there are a few additional
drawbacks though it leaves big streaks
in the print occasionally the yellow
seems to pick up lots of tiny specks of
cyan and magenta for some reason and the
ink cartridges while costing mere Pocket
Change only hold enough ink for up to
170 pages of text so be prepared to swap
them out frequently also it's slow the
manual claims that in a text only best
case scenario it can do five pages per
minute and for full color you could be
looking at several minutes per page so
if you're printing off a high quality
photo make sure to bring some reading
materials with you to pass the time uh
what you could also do to pass the time
is check out this message from our
sponsor I fix it okay let's see some
hands who's going to get the new iPhone
this year okay but hold on a second have
you thought about repairing your old one
instead you yeah you I see you and so
does I fix it it may seem daunting at
first but with I Fixit repair guides
you'll have step-by-step walkthroughs of
how to disassemble and patch up your old
iPhone no matter which one you're
currently using that's right even the
Beloved iPhone 4S has over 20 guides and
until September 30th you can get 20% off
of iFixit iPhone screen and battery
replacement parts so make the affordable
and perhaps more importantly sustainable
Choice instead of handing over a wat of
cash just for the latest and greatest
head to iFix it using our Link in the
description and breathe some new life
into your current iPhone if you guys
like this video maybe you'll also enjoy
the time we looked at a $95 3D printer
how bad was it
well not you just watch it